# UK TRE Community meeting - December 2023

:Date: [Monday 5th December 2023 13:30](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-12-05/13:30/UK%20TRE%20Community%20meeting%20-%20December%202023#eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL2x1Lm1hL3VrdHJlZGVjZW1iZXIifQ==)
:Slides: [**INSERT ZENODO LINK**]
:Recording: https://youtu.be/LbxLZudqjOA

## Background

​The UK TRE Community is a community of over 200 people that has grown organically over the last year for anyone interested in TREs, including researchers, operators, information governors, managers and more, from all sectors and disciplines.

​The core aims of fostering collaboration and sharing of innovative ideas to support the delivery of groundbreaking research with sensitive data have resonated across the UK and beyond.

​The community has a website, an active mailing list and Slack channel, and runs quarterly events like this for the community to come together, discuss ideas and problems within the TRE space and work collaboratively together on possible solutions and ways forward!

## Agenda

This agenda will be continuously updated as more sessions are confirmed.

| Time          | Agenda Item                                  |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| 13:30 - 13:45 | Welcome and intro                            |
| 13:45 - 14:30 | Keynote + discussion                         |
| 14:30 - 14:45 | Community updates                            |
| 14:45 - 14:55 | Break                                        |
| 14:55 - 15:00 | Intro to breakout session 1                  |
| 15:00 - 15:45 | Breakout session 1 [(see below)](#session-1) |
| 15:45 - 15:55 | Break                                        |
| 15:55 - 16:00 | Intro to breakout session 2                  |
| 16:00 - 16:45 | Breakout session 2 [(see below)](#session-2) |
| 16:45 - 17:00 | Wrap up                                      |

### Keynote

A talk by the Community Management working group on the latest developments, funding and plans for the community.
This will be followed by dedicated time to ask questions and discuss any proposals.

#### Summary

The talk summarised discussed why the UK TRE Community exists, and the plans for the community for the next 4 months.

The community considers itself to be a connecting force in the already very active and energetic UK TRE space, helping projects and teams in bringing their work to the wider community, achieving consensus and moving towards a shared approach to TRE provision across the UK's 4 nations.

The community shared an initial vision and mission for the community:

```{admonition} Vision
:class: hint

To have a four nations, coordinated, collaborative approach to research infrastructure for working with sensitive data
```

```{admonition} Mission
:class: hint

To provide the space to signpost, share knowledge and facilitate conversations across the UK TRE landscape
```

The talk then went into detail on the proposed work for the next 4 months. 
This was based on the proposal submitted for the DARE UK Community groups funding.
More detail can be found in the [our focus section]()

### Community updates

_A chance for anyone in the community to share quick updates with everyone on the call._

#### SDEs, TREs etc - terminology and definitions working group introduction 
*Pete Barnsley & Madalyn Hardaker*


#### The citizen and their increased / retained agency working group introduction 
*Pete Barnsley*

#### An architecture for extending the domain of control - custody of data working group introduction 
*Pete Barnsley*

### Breakout sessions

Breakout rooms will be a mixture of workshops (more structured sessions designed around a particular problem area, focused on moving towards an output) and discussions (less structured sessions to explore general areas of interest within the UK TRE space), as well as open rooms to have general discussions.

There will be two sessions on the day of 45 minutes each - please choose one breakout to go to from each session!

Notes will be taken from each session and circulated after the meeting.

#### Session 1

- [](./workshop-researcher-passports.md) - workshop
- [](./workshop-automated-output-checking-coi.md) - workshop
- [](./workshop-tre-c4-architecture.md) - workshop
- [](./discussion-local-cloud-hosting.md) - discussion
- [](./discussion-tre-federation.md) - discussion
- [](./discussion-ppie.md) - discussion

#### Session 2

- [](./workshop-package-allow-lists.md) - workshop
- [](./workshop-manual-output-checking.md) - workshop
- [](./workshop-satre.md) - workshop
- [](./discussion-nhs-sde.md) - discussion
- [](./discussion-provenance-metadata-standards.md) - discussion
- [](./discussion-multi-tre.md) - discussion
