# Breakout sessions

We are planning several breakout sessions on topics suggested by attendees, with topics chosen by attendees on the day via poll.

## Suggested topics

Some topic suggestions have already been submitted:

- Multi-TRE analysis: challenges, governance requirements, federation.
- Current state of the art re data linkage/federation/AI&ML&LLM across infrastructures: federation, governance, safe output methods
- TRE sustainability and operations
- Safety and security of Python and R package import into TREs
- Community-based efforts and collaborations in public involvement and engagement
- Cloud vs on-prem TREs: costs, constraints, pros & cons
- The role of independent TRE providers in relation to the NHS national and regional SDEs
- The role of TRE standards for the TRE community
- Sight unseen: how far can we go with keeping data hidden from users?
- Addressing data harmonisation between different datasets: do TREs have a role?
- Access and rights metadata to support process choreography and interoperability (e.g. generic researcher applications and authorization)

Additional topics can be suggested via [this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSes2N38KjElxgfXXDUEVBeQ5g8qvneQS9Gr4alZki5s_4RRew/viewform?usp=sf_link), or during the day itself.

## Breakout session format

Each breakout session will be one hour long, with multiple parallel topics decided by a vote prior to the session:

```{list-table}
:widths: 100 300
:header-rows: 0

- - 14:00 - 14:15
  - Vote for breakout 1 topics
- - 14:15 - 15:15
  - Breakout session 1
- - 15:15 - 15:30
  - Break, and vote for breakout 2 topics
- - 15:30 - 16:30
  - Breakout session 2
- - 16:30 - 16:45
  - Break
- - 16:45 - 17:15
  - Wrap up: Breakout groups present their next steps
```

We will attempt to cover as many topics as possible, and attendees can choose which breakout session to go to.
Popular topics will be covered in both sessions, giving participants the options of going much more in-depth.

The aim of these breakouts is to discuss the topic area, and explore how the community could take work forwards from the discussion.
At the end of this session we would like each group to summarise what next steps would look like: what they want to achieve, what resources would be needed, and how they could go about it.
